---
layout: post
title: In a world...
excerpt: Where a developers community wasn't what it turned out to be?
tags: [influencer, developer, swift, community]
comments: true
image:
  feature: headers/developer-influencer.jpg
  credit: Photo by Markus Spiske
sitemap   :
  priority : 0.9
  isfeatured : 1
---

Where developers became influencers, where Twitter was the new Youtube for developers, and where saying was more important than doing. In a world where you're considered expert if you are active in the community or where the company that you work for is decisive to give you opportunities. Where whoever sleeps over a topic and spend time investigating it, is a rockstar, and where documentation is read to rock in conferences. Is the iOS community becoming a place for influencers?

<br><br>
I've been attending to conferences during the last few months, as a speaker and also as an attendee. I met a lot of people and had the chance to share something I had been working for a long time. I got closer to the community elite, and I had the opportunity to be accessible for them. It takes time and some external certification, like the company you work for, to tell the elite that is worth giving you an opportunity. It was a good chance for me to meet great people, but also a good chance to get to know more about the community closer. *What was going on in that elite? Why were these people constantly rushing to grab the popular topic and make it theirs?*

<br><br>

Topics repeated in conferences. Some of the talks didn't provide a lot of value and developers hadn't worked at all with the ideas they were presenting. There's a huge difference when you compare a talk from someone that has been working a lot on the topic and from someone that studied the topic for giving a talk. *Why do people do it then?* Talks with a lot of value usually come from unknown people. From these people that from the anonymity worked on a topic and they achieved something that they were willing to share. Conferences like [UIKonf](http://www.uikonf.com/) try to encourage these people. In that conference people vote for the topics, and speakers are anonymous. People vote for the content and not for the person. People don't care about the company that person had worked for, or the newsletter that the person had written, but instead, what that person wants to share. A format that doesn't encourage creating **elites** and that aims a flat community.

<br><br>

I'd love to see more diversity, but instead, the same faces repeat in every conference. Conferences became the perfect place to create a brand and find your place in the elite. We've ended up with conferences organized by the elite for the elite. Where call for papers are not even considered, and where developers are asked for studying a topic for a talk. New announcements from Apple are the perfect source of topics for talks, grabbing it quickly is crucial: *Protocol Oriented*, *Swift Open Source*, *Extension*, *Swift in the server*... You can build your developer brand around the topic. After a few conferences talking about it, the community will tag you as *the expert in the topic X*. You might not have worked in a production environment with that new thing, you might not have faced the real use cases and issues, but documentation is perfect to prepare a talk based on it, isn't it? **Communities are discouraged when conferences organized for creating branding.** Only the *"elite"* has space in these conferences.

<br><br>

By tagging the elite as *"experts"* in different areas we put them under pressure. Pressure to keep that label and keep being active. I have to be at more conferences, I have to keep proposing more talks, I have to check Twitter or post that I opened a radar about a crash in the last Xcode version that is still beta. As you might guess some people can't handle that and it leads them to burnout. I've heard it from a few developers. *I had to stop attending conferences because I got burnout*. Moreover, some can't control the ego. Being part of the elite sets them levels above you. No matter how you approach them, the way they get back to you depends on the levels you are far from them. **That's very bad**. It’s encouraging a pyramidal one where it’s hard to have a voice, especially for newcomers. When developers start with the iOS development and start contributing with the community, they soon notice that developers X,Y,Z, are praised and respected and that to approach them requires some work. Work that starts by being more active everywhere, GitHub, Twitter... By praising their Tweets, their work, their posts like if it was the best thing you had ever seen, like if your life changed from that point on. With some energy and time, you'll eventually be part of the elite as well.

<br><br>

I don't think pyramidal structures do any good to communities *(in the same way they don't in other structures of our society)*. We should strive to a flat structure, with more diversity. Where developers are not influencers but developers. Where developers are encouraged to contribute, and share what they learned. Where your name or your company is not important. **And where developers, like you, enjoy what we like doing, developing and sharing our learnings with anyone.**
